# Advanced Forecasting Models for Renewable Energy Integration

This repository contains the code and documentation for our project focused on developing predictive models to forecast energy output from renewable sources (solar and wind) in China. These models aim to enhance the operational efficiency and stability of power grids by accurately predicting power outputs.

## Project Overview

The integration of variable renewable energy sources into power grids presents significant challenges due to their inherent intermittency. This project develops and validates sophisticated machine learning models to forecast energy output and assesses the environmental impact of computational modeling processes.

### Data

The project utilizes extensive datasets collected from six wind farms and eight solar stations across China. The datasets encompass over two years of data (2019-2020), recorded at 15-minute intervals. This includes weather-related parameters such as wind speed, wind direction, solar irradiance, air temperature, atmospheric pressure, and humidity.

### Models

We employ a variety of machine learning models to address the complex dynamics of weather and energy production:
- **Recurrent Neural Networks (RNN)**
- **Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) Networks**
- **Gated Recurrent Unit (GRU) Networks**
- **Gradient Boosting Machines (GBM)**
- **Random Forests**

These models are chosen for their ability to effectively capture temporal and nonlinear patterns within large time series data.

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

Ensure you have the following installed:
- Python 3.8+
- pip (Python package installer)

### Installation

1. **Clone the repository:**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/YilinYang2000/DSAN-5550-Final-Project.git
   ```

2. **Navigate to the project directory:**
   ```bash
   cd DSAN-5550-Final-Project
   ```

3. **Install required Python packages:**
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```



## Documentation

This repository is structured as follows to ensure easy access and manageability:

- `DSAN 5550 RefinedProject Proposal.pdf`: Contains the detailed project proposal and initial analysis plans.
- `final_project_poster_5550_Yilin_Yang.pdf`: The project poster which summarizes the methodology, results, and insights of the research.
- `renewable_energy_data/`: Directory containing the datasets used in this project. This includes detailed weather-related and power generation data collected from wind farms and solar stations.
- `code/`: Contains all the scripts used for data processing, model building, validation, and prediction.
- `image/`: This directory houses images used in documentation and any output graphs or visualizations generated by the scripts.



